Electric vehicles are gaining global popularity lately, and along with it, 
efficient battery thermal management systems (BTMS) are also gaining 
traction amongst the research community. Phase change material (PCM) based 
BTMS can be an attractive solution due to its high energy density and 
isothermal energy exchange. However, pure PCM has some drawbacks like 
low thermal conductivity, volume expansion, and leakage during phase 
change. A shape stable composite PCM (SSCPCM) resolves these drawbacks 
but is an expensive solution due to the high cost of conventional 
supporting materials. Biochar (BC) based SSCPCM developed in this study 
can be a cheap and sustainable solution for BTMS. The characterization 
studies are carried out for combination of pure PCM (Myristyl Alcohol) 
and biochar at various loadings of 6%, 12%, 18%, and 24% by weight, 
using Fourier transform infrared analysis (FT-IR), X-ray diffraction 
(XRD) analysis, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), particle size analysis 
(PSA), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), and thermogravimetric 
analysis (TGA). The shape stability studies reveal that the PCM with 
minimum of 24% biochar (PCM-BC24) is shape stable. The thermal 
conductivities and effusivities of pure and shape-stable composite 
PCMs are also studied. Enhancement in thermal conductivity of 
PCM-BC24 is studied with the addition of multi-walled carbon 
nanotubes (MWCNT) in 0.5% and 1% concentrations. FT-IR and XRD 
results reveal that the interaction of biochar and MWCNT with pure 
PCM is purely physical and chemically stable. The degree of 
supercooling is reduced by 19.26%, 23.49%, and 25.17% for 
PCM-BC24 with 1% MWCNT compared to pure PCM at a heating rate of 5.0, 
7.5, and 10 °C/min, respectively. Thermal conductivity and effusivity 
of PCM-BC24 with 1% MWCNT are 458.72% and 146.25% higher than the 
pure PCM, respectively. The TGA results reveal that PCMs thermal 
stability is not adversely affected by the addition of BC & MWCNT. 
Furthermore, an ANFIS model is developed to predict the heat flow (mW/mg) 
values of PCM samples and found that the generalized bell-shaped input and 
linear output membership function is best suitable with a coefficient of 
determination (R2) of 0.971.
